## Apache Spark

spark is open source in-memory application framework for distributed data processing and iterative analylsis on massive data volumes. Spark is in-memory which means that all operations happen within the memory or RAM.

**Distributed Computing:**
Distributed computing as the name suggest, is a group of computers or processors working together behind the scenes. Sometimes distributed computing and parallel computing are used interchangeably as the two computing types have many similarities. however, distributed and parallel computing access memory differently. Typically, parallel computing shares all the memory, while in distributed computing each processor accesses its own memory. 

**benefits of Distributed Computing**

- *Scalability and modular growth*: Distributed system are inherently scalable as they work across multiple machines and scale horizontally. A user can add additional machines to handle increasing workload instead of repeatedly updating a single system, with virtually no cap for scalabitlity.

- *Fault tolerance and redundancy*: Distributed system require both fault tolerance and redundancy as they use independent nodes that could fail. Distributed computing offers more than fault tolerance. Distributed computing provides redundancy that enables business continuity. For example, a business running a cluster of eight machines can continue to function whether a single machine or multiple machines go offline.

- *Computing  framework for large-scale data processing and analysis*

- *Parallel distributed data processing capablities*

- *Speed up processing due to in-memory capablities*


